---
layout: download
board_id: "ft4232h"
title: "FT4232H Download"
name: "FT4232H"
manufacturer: "Future Technology Devices International Ltd"
board_url:
 - "https://ftdichip.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/DS_FT4232H.pdf"
board_image: "ft4232h.jpg"
download_instructions: "https://learn.adafruit.com/circuitpython-on-any-computer-with-ft232h"
downloads_display: true
date_added: 2025-05-05
blinka: true
features:
---

The FT4232H is FTDI’s 5th generation of USB devices. The FT4232H is a USB 2.0 High Speed (480Mb/s) to UART/MPSSE ICs. The device features 4 UARTs. Two of these have an option to independently configure an MPSSE engine. This allows the FT4232H to operate as two UART/Bit-Bang ports plus two MPSSE engines used to emulate JTAG, SPI, I2C, Bit-bang or other synchronous serial modes. The FT4232H has the following advanced features:

- FTDI FT232B style, asynchronous serial UART interface option with full hardware handshaking and modem interface signals.  Fully assisted hardware or X-On / X-Off software handshaking.
- UART Interface supports 7/8-bit data, 1/2 stop bits, and Odd/Even/Mark/Space/No Parity.
- Auto-transmit enables control for RS485 serial applications using TXDEN pin.
- Single chip USB to quad serial ports with a variety of configurations.
- Entire USB protocol handled on the chip. No USB specific firmware programming required.
- USB 2.0 High Speed (480Mbits/Second) and Full Speed (12Mbits/Second) compatible.
- Two Multi-Protocol Synchronous Serial Engine (MPSSE) on channel A and channel B, to simplify synchronous serial protocol (USB to JTAG, I2C, SPI or bit-bang) design.
- Independent Baud rate generators.
- RS232/RS422/RS485 UART Transfer Data Rate up to 12Mbaud. (RS232 Data Rate limited by external level shifter).
- FTDI’s royalty-free Virtual Com Port (VCP) and Direct (D2XX) drivers eliminate the requirement for USB driver development in most cases.
- Optional traffic TX/RX indicators can be added with LEDs and an external 74HC595 shift register.
- Adjustable receive buffer timeout.
- Support for USB suspend and resume conditions via PWREN#, SUSPEND# and RI# pins.
- Highly integrated design includes +1.8V LDO regulator for VCORE, integrated POR function and on chip clock multiplier PLL (12MHz – 480MHz).
- Operational configuration mode and USB Description strings configurable in external EEPROM over the USB interface.
- Low operating and USB suspend current.
- Configurable I/O drive strength (4, 8, 12 or 16mA) and slew rate.
- Supports bus powered, self-powered and highpower bus powered USB configurations.
- UHCI/OHCI/EHCI host controller compatible.
- USB Bulk data transfer mode (512 byte packets in High-Speed mode).
- Dedicated Windows DLLs available for USB to JTAG, USB to SPI, and USB to I2C applications.
- +1.8V (chip core) and +3.3V I/O interfacing (+5V Tolerant).
- Extended -40°C to 85°C industrial operating temperature range.
- Compact 64-LD Lead Free LQFP or QFN package
- Available in compact Pb-free 56 Pin VQFN packages (RoHS compliant)
- +3.3V single supply operating voltage range.
- ESD protection for FT4232H IO’s: Human Body Model (HBM) ±2kV,  Machine Mode (MM) ±200V, Charge Device Model (CDM) ±500V,  Latch-up free.

## Purchase
* [Digi-Key](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/ftdi-future-technology-devices-international-ltd/FT4232H-56Q-MINI-MDL/5994776)
